#### SERX94: Machine Learning Evaluation
#### title : Keywords Generation
#### author : Chedvihas Punnam
#### date : 11/22/2022

## Evaluation Metrics

### Metric 1
**Name:** Mean Absolute Error.

**Choice Justification:** Mean Absolute error is an  error calculation where the non-negative difference between the prediction and the actual is calculated. MAE is the aggregated mean of these errors, which helps us understand the model performance over the whole dataset. 

**Interpretation:** For the best model for my project, I got 0.12331 as Absolute Mean Square Error. This value is close to 0, so it means that there is very less difference between the original and predicted value. 

### Metric 2
**Name:**  Root Mean Square Error

**Choice Justification:** Root mean square error, as the name sugggest, it first squares the difference of the test value and the predicted value, then it caclculates the square root of the value, then the mean of this value will be the root mean square error. The lower the value of this, better the model is. This is one of the good metric for the current model because, in this case the ouput values are either 0 or 1, same in the test data and predicted value. So, from this if we get the value closer to zero, it will be a good model.

**Interpretation:** For the best model for my project, I got 0.2511 as Root Mean Square Error. This value is closer to 0 than to 1, so it means that there is very less difference between the original and predicted value. 



## Alternative Models
### Alternative 1 Logistic Regression
**Construction:** Logistic regression is a statistical analysis method to predict a binary outcome, such as yes or no, based on prior observations of a data set. In this project as the ouput is either 0 or 1, which says weather word is keyword or not. So, I have tried using this model.

**Evaluation:** 
The following are the results of the evaluation metrics:
Mean absolute Error: 0.07394766780432309
Root Mean Square Error: 0.2719332046740947

### Alternative 2 Linear Regression
**Construction:** Initially I have used Logistic Regression as my base model, in base model, the input content only have the blog content. Now, I have tried using linear regression, in this I have appended title of the blog to its content and gave it as input.

**Evaluation:** 
The following are the results of the evaluation metrics:
Mean Absolute Error: 0.1233189427455189
Root Mean Square Error: 0.25116950554463086

Compared to the base model, the root mean square error value for Logistic regression model(0.2719) this is better, This might be becuase title is appended and title might have more importance in generating keywords.

### Alternative 3 KNN
**Construction:** Initially I have used Logistic Regression as my base model, in base model, the input content only have the blog content. Now, I have tried using KNN, in this I have appended title of the blog to its content and gave it as input.

**Evaluation:** 
The following are the results of the evaluation metrics:
Mean Absolute Error:0.07394766780432309
Root Mean Square Error:0.2719332046740947

For this model, the metrics are almost similar to that of Logistic Regression.

## Best Model

**Model:** The best model for my project among above 3 models is Linear Regression. It has minimum error, the output keywords generated by this were more relevant compared to the other models.